SSI Fellowship Application
==========================

Hello, my name is Henry Wilde and I am applying for the Software Sustainability
Institute's Fellowship 2019.

I wish to become a Fellow because I believe I am in a unique position to spread
the principles of the Institute into both academic and industrial research in
South Wales.


About me
--------

First, a bit about me.

I am in the second year of my PhD at Cardiff University where I conduct research
with a local health board into areas such as: operational research healthcare
modelling, and machine learning, all of which are heavily dependent on software.


Software and I
--------------

Primarily, I use Python to conduct my research, and consider myself to be an
open source software developer. Since the beginning of my PhD, I have written
and maintain two Python libraries both built on the principles of test-driven
development, reproducibility and good documentation.

One of these libraries has already begun to gain some international popularity
amongst young researchers in game theory and resource allocation.

This engagement is an example of one of the great benefits of being an open
source software developer: the community.

In Cardiff, there is a bustling physical community, and I am an active member of
two local groups, PyDiff and PyData Cardiff, which promote the use of open
source software in all settings ranging from having a bit of fun to full stack
data analytics.

With respect to the wider software community, I was fortunate enough to attend
the SSI's Collaboration Workshop last year while it was in Cardiff, as well as
attending PyConUK last September.

Each of these experiences particularly highlighted the importance of sustainable
software in the modern day, and sparked my enthusiasm for it.


My research
-----------

As I mentioned before, I conduct my research with a Welsh health board. At this
time, the NHS, but particularly NHS Wales, is under increasing amounts of
pressure to reduce their running costs.

It is believed that efficiency improvement must play a vital role in
significantly reducing these costs.

Often, where there is variation there is inefficiency. And so the purpose of my
research is to better understand the factors that cause and perpetuate cost
variation in the hospital system.

With the understanding obtained through my research, and by communicating my
findings with healthcare managers, potential improvements can be introduced to
the system, thus relieving pressure on scarce resources.

I am fortunate to be a part of the Operational Research Group here at Cardiff as
it has strong, long-standing relationships with both my health board with
several others in the area.

The University is the largest in Wales and has built up a reputation of being
committed to promoting widespread software use globally -- having won a Times
Higher Education award in 2017 for their work in Southern Africa -- and 
innovation in healthcare management research.

Local action
------------

As a Fellow, I would exploit the benefits of my university and my standing
within the operational research and healthcare modelling communities in South
Wales to conduct workshops akin to those run by Software Carpentry.

In particular, with two local groups with which I am closely involved: the South
Wales Operational Research Discussion Society and the NHS Wales Modelling
Collaborative.

These workshops would be catered toward healthcare managers and operational
researchers in local industries, with a particular focus on best practices for
data science as this is at the forefront of modern research in these areas.

In addition to these relationships, I believe that my set of circumstances
within my department have prepared me to be an ideal Fellow. There are three
existing Fellows in the School of Mathematics who have created a community of
good practice, and provide a wealth of expertise that I wish to push forward in
my Fellowship.

For the past two years, they have conducted a research software development
workshop for postgraduates in our department. I would seek to extend this to a
wider audience of postgraduates from multiple disciplines through the
University's Doctoral Academy.

The purpose of this would not only be to spread the best practices of research
software development to early-career researchers from a wide range of
disciplines but also to gain an understanding of the aversion to best practices
I have seen instilled in such researchers, first-hand.


Further afield
--------------

Looking further afield, I would take the opportunity to run a similar data
science workshop at the Operational Research Society's national conference, and
in the healthcare stream of the European Conference on Operational Research
which is being held in Dublin this year.

I wish also to speak at PyConUK and EuroSciPy on my experiences with the
sustainable software community. Here, I would relay the importance and benefits
of consuming, and developing, software sustainably.


Summary
-------

In summary, as someone who is standing at the intersection of mathematics and
healthcare management, I can make a deep and widespread impact on the use of
sustainable software in both academic and industrial research.

As a Fellow, I would be a crucial member of a team continually committed to
sustainable software. By investing in me, the Institute would be fortifying
their investment in each of those Fellows, and in our joint commitment to
ensuring the vitality of sustainable software across South Wales.

Thank you for your time and consideration, and I hope to hear from you soon.
